translated quickstart_de -> quickstart_en (#63)
PM-Dungeon/desktop: documentation/quickstart_en.md

# Quickstart

> This document provides an introduction to the PM-Dungeon. It explains the installation of the framework and the first steps to add your own content to the dungeon. It serves as a basis for all further practical courses. Therefore, read the document carefully and additionally try to familiarise yourself with the structure.

Reviewer: finde ich gut. dann sind die dokumente zwar nicht mehr 1:1, aber das sollte die pflege leichter machen. außerdem passt das dann besser zu einer möglichen zielgruppe ...

mittelfristig bin ich am überlegen, ob man nicht die englische version in das core-repo zurückintegriert und das desktop-repo als template für das semester-repo umbaut. aber das sind gedanken für über-übermorgen-cagix.

*Note: The game loop is executed automatically, you do not have to actively call it up.*
- In addition, there are a number of other helper classes with which you will sometimes have more or sometimes less contact.
- `Painter`: Takes care that the contents are displayed graphically.
- `DungeonCamera`: Your eye into the dungeon.
- Different interfaces, which you will get to know in the course of this document.

The UML class diagram below is intended to give you a reduced and simplified overview of the structure of the framework. It therefore does not represent all classes/methods/attributes. Use it as a starting point and explore the codebase on your own.

![simple_uml](figs/simple_uml.png)

## First start

> The **{specifications/defaults/presets/requirements}** are already executable and can be run directly.

Author: Welche Verwendung für die "Vorgaben" des repos passt hier am besten?

Reviewer: Gute Frage, da habe ich ad hoc auch kein passendes Wort. Wie wäre es mit einer Umschreibung: "The given files are ..." oder  "The given project is already ..."?

Reviewer: > Gute Frage, da habe ich ad hoc auch kein passendes Wort. Wie wäre es mit einer Umschreibung: "The given files are ..." oder "The given project is already ..."?

Edit: Oder "The files given in the desktop repo ..."?

Author: Fixed in: bce4b70

To do this, you can either load the presets as a project in your IDE and start the application via the run function or you can start the application via the command line.
To do this, go to the `desktop/code` directory, open the command line and enter the following command:

- If you are using Windows: `bash gradlew run`
- If you are running Linux: `./gradlew run`

_Note_: If you have problems starting the application, please check the [FAQ](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/desktop/wiki/FAQ#problem--gradle-konfiguration-wird-nicht-erkannt). If you still cannot solve your problem, please contact us **early**.

The game should now start and you should be able to see a section of the level for the first time.

![first_start](figs/pm-dungeon_start.png)

## A look at the code

> Now before we implement our hero we should understand how exactly the **{specifications/defaults/presets/requirements}** are **{structured/built}**.

Author: Was sollten wir hier für die Verwendung der repo "Vorgaben" verwenden?

Reviewer: "Now, before we implement our hero, we should understand how the sample project and the given code is structured."?

Author: Fixed in: bce4b70

To do this, open the `desktop/code` directory as a Gradle project in your favourite IDE.

Let us now look at `desktop.MyGame.java`. This class is your entry point into the dungeon. This is where you will later create your content and add it to the dungeon.

`MyGame` inherits from MainController. As the name suggests, the `MainController` is the main controller of the game. It prepares everything for the start of the game, manages the other controllers and contains the game loop. We use `MyGame` to intervene in the game loop ourselves and to manage our own objects such as heroes and monsters. The `MainController` is the point where all the threads of the dungeon come together.

`MyGame` already implements some methods:
- `setup` is called at the beginning of the application. This method will later initialise and configure the objects that must already exist before the game starts. By default, the first level is already loaded here.

> - `beginFrame` is called at the beginning of each frame. Queries and calculations, such as combat situations, will be implemented here later.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `beginFrame` is called at the beginning of each frame. Queries and calculations, such as combat situations, will be implemented here.
```

> - `EndFrame` is called at the end of each frame. This is where queries and calculations, such as collision checks, are later implemented.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `EndFrame` is called at the end of each frame. This is where queries and calculations, such as collision checks, are implemented.
```

>   `OnLevelLoad` is called whenever a level is loaded. This is where monsters and items are created later, which are initially distributed in the level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `OnLevelLoad` is called whenever a level is loaded. This is where monsters and items are created, which are initially distributed in the level.
```

```java
    @Override
    public void update() {
        draw();
    }
```

The method `draw()` is a pre-implemented method in the interface `IEntity` (you will learn what this means in the course of the semester) and ensures that our hero is drawn at the appropriate position in the dungeon.

We have implemented the first version of our hero. Now we still have to instantiate him in the game.
To do this, we go back to `MyGame` and create a variable `MyHero hero`.
In `setup` we now create our hero and register him in `EntityController`. We also want the camera to be centred on our hero.

```java
    @Override
    protected void setup() {
        hero = new MyHero(batch, painter);
        entityController.add(hero);
        camera.follow(hero);
        // load the first level
        ...
    }
```

Now we just have to place the hero in the dungeon. To do this, we call the `setLevel` method after a level has been loaded.

```java
    @Override
    public void onLevelLoad() {
        hero.setLevel(levelAPI.getCurrentLevel());
    }
```

> When you start the game now, you should be able to see your (rather immobile) hero in the dungeon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you now start the game , you should be able to see your (rather immobile) hero in the dungeon.
```

Author: Da finde ich die ursprünglicher Ausdrucksweise fluenter. Im Deutschen würde man das sicher so schreiben aber ich glaube in Englisch... Was meinst Du, trotzdem ändern?

Reviewer 2: alternativvorschlag: "now" einfach vollständig entfernen. Erfüllt eigentlich keinen zweck

Reviewer: ja, "now" raus im zweifel. aber ich finde tatsächlich die urspr. variante "englischer" ... (bin aber kein experte)

The assets folder can also be **renamed** or **moved** to another location: To do this, adjust the path `sourceSets.main.resources.srcDirs = ["assets/"]` in the [`build.gradle`](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/desktop/blob/master/code/build.gradle) file.

**Example:** You want to move the folder `desktop/code/assets/` to `desktop/code/bar/wuppie/`, then change `sourceSets.main.resources.srcDirs = ["assets/"]` to `sourceSets.main.resources.srcDirs = ["bar/wuppie/"]`.

Note that the folder can only be renamed/moved within `desktop/code/`.

Later you will probably find it more convenient to use [`textures/TextureHandler.java`](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/core/blob/master/code/core/src/textures/TextureHandler.java) instead of relative paths, which can take regular expressions and return appropriate texture paths.

***

### The moving (animated) hero

Currently, our hero has only one fixed texture, in this section, we animate our hero.
In the PM dungeon, an animation is a loop of different textures that are drawn in alternation.
To animate our hero we use an extended version of the `IEntity` interface `IAnimatable`.

`public class MyHero implements IAnimatable`.

> We now need to replace the `getTexture` method with the `getActiveAnimation` method. Similarly, we replace our `texture` attribute with an attribute `idle` (`private animation idle`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We now need to replace the `getTexture` method with the `getActiveAnimation` method. Similarly, we replace our `texture` attribute with an attribute `idle` (`private Animation idle`).
```

    this.batch=batch;
    this.painter=painter;

    // create an ArrayList
    List<String> animation = new ArrayList<>();
    // load the texture(s) of the animation (use the relative path)
    animation.add("assets_path_to_texture/texture_1.png");
    animation.add("assets_path_to_texture/texture_2.png");
    // creation of the animation. As parameter the list of animation textures and
    // the time between swapping of animation textures must be specified during
    // creation.
    idle = new Animation(idle, 8);
}
```

To create an animation you need a list of different textures. Then you can create an animation with `new Animation()`. You pass the list with the textures and an integer value that indicates after how many frames the next texture should be loaded (here in the example the value 8). So in our example the texture `texture_1` is displayed for 8 frames, then the texture `texture_2` for 8 frames and then again the texture `texture_1` for 8 frames and so on.

You can (and should) also create different animations for different situations (standing, walking, ...). Just return in `getActiveAnimation` always the animation that should be used at the moment.

> When you start the game now, you should see your animated (but still immobile) hero.

Author: siehe Kommentar oben über diesem ^^

Since we automatically reposition our hero in `onLevelLoad` when loading a new level, we don't have to worry about this anymore.

```java
    @Override
    protected void endFrame() {
        if(levelAPI.getCurrentLevel().isOnEndTile(hero))
            levelAPI.loadLevel();
    }
```

_Note_: Later you will have placed many more entities in the level (monsters, treasure chests, traps ...). You should delete these when loading a new level or "take" them with you to the next level.

When you now start the game, you should be able to move your hero through the game world and also get to the next level.

![first_start](figs/pm-dungeon_level_unknown.png)

## Level generator

The PM Dungeon uses its own procedural level generator. Actually, you don't have to bother with it, but under certain circumstances, the calculation of levels can take a lot of time on your machine. You can therefore use saved levels instead of "freshly generated" levels. To do this, simply add `levelAPI.setGenerator(new LevelLoader());` to the beginning of the `MyGame#setup` method. The levels are loaded from `.json` files in the `assets/level/files/` directory.

## Final words

> You have now made the first steps in the dungeon. From now on, you have to decide for yourself how you want to implement the tasks in the lab. You will have noticed that some interface methods have not yet been explained in this document. Therefore, familiarise yourself with the Javadoc of the [Framework](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/core).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have now made the first steps in the dungeon. From now on, you have to decide for yourself how and what you want to implement in your dungeon. You will have noticed that some interface methods have not yet been explained in this document. Therefore, familiarise yourself with the Javadoc of the [Framework](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/core).
```

## Additional functions

> Here you will find additional functions that you may need in the course of the practical course.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here you will find additional functions that you may want to use. 
```

In the example below, a text is implemented that displays the current level.

```java
public class MyGame extends MainController {
    .....
    Label levelLabel;
    int levelCounter=0;

    public void onLevelLoad() {
        levelCounter++;
        if (levelCounter==1){
            levelLabel=hudController.drawText("Level"+x,"PATH/TO/FONT.ttf",Color.RED,30,50,50,30,30);
        }
        else{
            levelLabel.setText("Level"+x);
        }
    }
    //remove label
    //levelLabel.remove();
}
```

For more detailed information on the parameters, please refer to the JavaDoc.

![first_start](figs/pm-dungeon_hud_icons.png)

### Level API

You have many ways to interact with the level.
Check out the [Javadoc](https://github.com/PM-Dungeon/core) to find out how to identify optional rooms or blow away walls.

### Sound

If you want to add sound effects or background music to your dungeon, `libGDX` offers an easy way to do so.

The formats `.mp3`, `.wav` and `.ogg` are supported. The procedure does not differ between the formats.

```java
// load the file as a sound object
Sound mySound = Gdx.audio.newSound(Gdx.files.internal("assets/sound/sound.mp3"));
mySound.play();

> // play the sound very dimmed

Author: ```suggestion
// play the sound at a volume level of 10%
```
